SETUP.md, before:

# Websoft Blog Setup Guide

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ installed
- Clerk account (for authentication)
- npm or yarn package manager

## Installation Steps

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Set Up Clerk Authentication

1. Go to [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/)
2. Create a new application or use an existing one
3. Go to API Keys section
4. Copy your Publishable Key and Secret Key

### 3. Configure Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory:

```env
# Clerk Authentication
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=your_publishable_key_here
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=your_secret_key_here

# App URL (for API calls in server components)
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3000

# Database (already configured for SQLite)
DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"

# Newsletter (optional – welcome email via Resend)
# RESEND_API_KEY=re_xxxxx
# NEWSLETTER_FROM_EMAIL=newsletter@yourdomain.com
```

### 4. Newsletter (Optional)

Newsletter signups are stored in the database. To send a welcome/confirmation email when someone subscribes:

1. Create an account at [Resend](https://resend.com/) and get an API key.
2. Add `RESEND_API_KEY=re_xxxxx` to `.env.local`.
3. Optionally set `NEWSLETTER_FROM_EMAIL` to a verified domain (e.g. `newsletter@yourdomain.com`). If unset, Resend’s test address is used.

Without `RESEND_API_KEY`, signups are still saved; no email is sent.

### 5. Set Up Google OAuth (Optional)

1. In Clerk Dashboard, go to "User & Authentication" > "Social Connections"
2. Enable Google OAuth
3. Configure your Google OAuth credentials

### 6. Initialize Database

```bash
npx prisma generate
npx prisma migrate dev
```

### 7. Create Admin User

To create an admin user, you'll need to:

1. Sign up through the app (this creates a user in the database)
2. Manually update the user's role in the database:

```bash
npx prisma studio
```

Then in Prisma Studio:
- Find your user
- Change `role` from `"user"` to `"admin"`

Or use SQL:

```sql
UPDATE User SET role = 'admin' WHERE email = 'your-email@example.com';
```

### 8. Run Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000` to see your application.

## Features

- ✅ Full blog system with CRUD operations
- ✅ Comments and nested replies
- ✅ Image uploads for blog posts
- ✅ Clerk authentication with Google OAuth
- ✅ Protected admin dashboard
- ✅ AOS animations throughout
- ✅ Responsive design

## Project Structure

```
websoft-web/
├── app/
│   ├── admin/          # Admin dashboard (protected)
│   ├── api/            # API routes
│   ├── blog/           # Blog pages
│   ├── contact/        # Contact page
│   └── sign-in/        # Clerk sign-in page
├── components/
│   ├── admin/          # Admin components
│   ├── blog/           # Blog components
│   └── sections/       # Homepage sections
├── lib/                # Utility functions
├── prisma/             # Database schema
└── types/              # TypeScript types
```

## Making a User Admin

After signing up, update the user role in the database:

```bash
# Using Prisma Studio (recommended)
npx prisma studio

# Or using SQL
sqlite3 prisma/dev.db "UPDATE User SET role = 'admin' WHERE email = 'your-email@example.com';"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Middleware Errors

If you see middleware errors, make sure your `.env.local` file has the correct Clerk keys.

### Database Errors

Run migrations:
```bash
npx prisma migrate dev
```

### Image Upload Issues

Make sure the `public/uploads` directory exists and is writable.

## Next Steps

- Configure email service for contact form
- Add more blog features (tags, categories)
- Deploy to production

Commit message:

of changes: 1. Random images for all blog posts In prisma/seed.ts, every post now gets a featured image. The three local images (Illustrator1.jpg, illstrator2.jpg, illustrator3.jpg) are assigned in rotation (post 1 → image 1, post 2 → image 2, etc.). To apply this in your DB, re-run: npx prisma db seed (or reset and seed if you prefer). 2. Blog widths Blog list 1: Container set to max-w-5xl w-full so the list fits the container. Single post (app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx): Content and breadcrumb use max-w-4xl w-full. Featured image is wrapped in the same max-w-4xl container with aspect-video and rounded-xl overflow-hidden so it stays within the content width. 3. Fonts (viewable and portable) Body 2: Added a portable font stack (ui-sans-serif, system-ui, etc.), font-size: 1rem, line-height: 1.6, and antialiasing. Headings: Use clamp() for responsive sizes and letter-spacing: -0.02em. Prose (blog content): font-size: 1.0625rem, line-height: 1.7, and responsive heading sizes with clamp(). 4. “Websoft” name Header 3: “Websoft” text added next to the logo (visible from sm and up). Logo alt set to "" so the visible text is the label. Footer 4: “Websoft” added next to the logo in the company column, and the bottom bar is now a row with “Websoft” on the left and “© … All rights reserved.” on the right (stacked on small screens). No new linter issues were reported. After pulling these changes, run npx prisma db seed to give all 20 posts featured images.

SETUP.md, after:

# Websoft Blog Setup Guide

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ installed
- Clerk account (for authentication)
- npm or yarn package manager

## Installation Steps

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Set Up Clerk Authentication

1. Go to [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/)
2. Create a new application or use an existing one
3. Go to API Keys section
4. Copy your Publishable Key and Secret Key

### 3. Configure Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory:

```env
# Clerk Authentication
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=your_publishable_key_here
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=your_secret_key_here

# App URL (for API calls in server components)
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3000

# Database (already configured for SQLite)
DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"

# Newsletter (optional – welcome email via Resend)
# RESEND_API_KEY=re_xxxxx
# NEWSLETTER_FROM_EMAIL=newsletter@yourdomain.com
```

### 4. Newsletter (Optional)

Newsletter signups are stored in the database. To send a welcome/confirmation email when someone subscribes:

1. Create an account at [Resend](https://resend.com/) and get an API key.
2. Add `RESEND_API_KEY=re_xxxxx` to `.env.local`.
3. Optionally set `NEWSLETTER_FROM_EMAIL` to a verified domain (e.g. `newsletter@yourdomain.com`). If unset, Resend’s test address is used.

Without `RESEND_API_KEY`, signups are still saved; no email is sent.

### 5. Set Up Google OAuth (Optional)

1. In Clerk Dashboard, go to "User & Authentication" > "Social Connections"
2. Enable Google OAuth
3. Configure your Google OAuth credentials

### 6. Database: SQLite or PostgreSQL (Docker)

**Option A – SQLite (default, no container)**  
Use `DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"` in `.env.local`. Then:

```bash
npx prisma generate
npx prisma db push
```

**Option B – PostgreSQL as a container (external service)**  
Run the database in Docker and connect the app to it:

1. Start the database container:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```
2. In `.env.local`, set the Postgres URL (match user/password/db/port from `compose.yaml` or env):
   ```env
   DATABASE_URL="postgresql://websoft:websoft_secret@localhost:5432/websoft"
   ```
3. Generate the Prisma client and create tables:
   ```bash
   npx prisma generate
   npx prisma db push
   ```
   Or use migrations: `npx prisma migrate dev`.

The app uses `DATABASE_URL` to decide: if it starts with `postgresql://`, it connects to PostgreSQL; otherwise it uses SQLite.

### 7. Create Admin User

To create an admin user, you'll need to:

1. Sign up through the app (this creates a user in the database)
2. Manually update the user's role in the database:

```bash
npx prisma studio
```

Then in Prisma Studio:
- Find your user
- Change `role` from `"user"` to `"admin"`

Or use SQL:

```sql
UPDATE User SET role = 'admin' WHERE email = 'your-email@example.com';
```

### 8. Run Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000` to see your application.

## Features

- ✅ Full blog system with CRUD operations
- ✅ Comments and nested replies
- ✅ Image uploads for blog posts
- ✅ Clerk authentication with Google OAuth
- ✅ Protected admin dashboard
- ✅ AOS animations throughout
- ✅ Responsive design

## Project Structure

```
websoft-web/
├── app/
│   ├── admin/          # Admin dashboard (protected)
│   ├── api/            # API routes
│   ├── blog/           # Blog pages
│   ├── contact/        # Contact page
│   └── sign-in/        # Clerk sign-in page
├── components/
│   ├── admin/          # Admin components
│   ├── blog/           # Blog components
│   └── sections/       # Homepage sections
├── lib/                # Utility functions
├── prisma/             # Database schema
└── types/              # TypeScript types
```

## Making a User Admin

After signing up, update the user role in the database:

```bash
# Using Prisma Studio (recommended)
npx prisma studio

# Or using SQL (SQLite)
sqlite3 prisma/dev.db "UPDATE User SET role = 'admin' WHERE email = 'your-email@example.com';"

# Or using SQL (PostgreSQL, when using Docker)
psql -U websoft -d websoft -c "UPDATE \"User\" SET role = 'admin' WHERE email = 'your-email@example.com';"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Middleware Errors

If you see middleware errors, make sure your `.env.local` file has the correct Clerk keys.

### Database Errors

Run migrations:
```bash
npx prisma migrate dev
```

### Image Upload Issues

Make sure the `public/uploads` directory exists and is writable.

## Next Steps

- Configure email service for contact form
- Add more blog features (tags, categories)
- Deploy to production
